In this lecture, I'm going to discuss how to access your instances, which is running on private subnets.
So at the time of creation of cluster, we had chosen 2 instances and also we selected private subnets.
So the instances for the cluster has been started on the private subnet only.
And also we know that there is no Internet connectivity or public IP in the instances which is running
on private subnet.
So in later lectures, I'm going to create my containers on the instances which is on the private subnet.
So how to access those instances.
So this is what we are going to learn in this lecture.
So first of all, we need one instance.
It should be running on the public subnet because in our VPC we have two public and two private.
So first of all, I'm going to create one instance, and that instance would be the part of your public
subnet.
So if you want to access your private subnet instances, first you have to log into the instance which
is running on the public subnet.
And then from that instance, you can easily log into your private subnet instances.
So let me show you practically.
So first of all, I'm going to launch an instance and let me take any Linux instance.
I'm okay with t2 micro.
Let's configure the instance details.
So number of instances 1 and here under the network I'm going to choose this VPC and this time the
subnet I'm going to choose the public one.
Here we have this public one and the auto assigned public IP, let me put it enabled and everything.
I'm taking default review and launch launch and it is asking for the key pair.
So I'm going to choose this one.
So same key pair I have chosen for my instances which is running on the private subnet.
I have just given instance public.
And this is the public IP.
So let me use the MobaXterm to access this system.
Click on session and click on SSH Remote Host.
Here you have to put the public IP and specify your username EC2-user and then click on advance.
SSH settings use private key and browse your private key.
So I had selected this one.
ECS demo key okay.
So here you can see I'm able to access my instance, which is running on public subnet.
So in the next lecture, I will show you how we can access my private instance from that public instance.
So that's all we'll see you in the next lecture.